In this section I will be revising the concepts of C and C++ programming that are used in this course
as the courses data structures just using C and C++.
Basically the course is in C language.
Plus I have also shown how to write on the code in C++.
Also it is added advantage if you know C++.
Even if you don't know C++ it is sufficient to know C language so you should be already knowing basics
of C programming.
We should already have some experience of C programming under the concepts of C programming that are
frequently used in this course.
I'm going to revise them so you are well acquainted or well familiar with those concepts and you
can easily understand the rest of the topics.
So in this section, I'll be going to discuss about basic subject areas though we have a big topic on arrays
there are a lot of things we are going to learn about.
But here basics about arrays, I will discuss then structures in C language, then pointers, What are pointers
you will study, references parameter passing in C as well as C++, then classes, constructors and templates.
These topics are related to C++, these topics are in C language, so these topics are more frequently used
and how do we use them and what is the approach I'm following.
You can understand that approach from these topics. And one more thing.
If you are already very familiar with C++ programming and you are a good programmer I suggest you to
go through this section so that you understand style of programming that I have adopted in this course and
you get very familiar and it will be very easy for you to understand the rest of the topics.
So let us start with Arrays.
So, right now I will discuss a little bit about arrays, then in coming videos,
We will learn about all these things one by one.
So let us start with arrays. Arrays are defined as a collection of similar data elements.
If you have some set of integers or set of floats, you can group them under one name as an array.
See the method of declaring an array is, if you want an integer type,
let's say, int A[5]
Then you get 5 integers, array name is A, and all those integers you can access them by the name A.
So this is an array and you get 5 integer spaces and the indices will be 0 1 2 3 4 . So, 5 locations
means the indices are from 0 to 4, total 5 spaces.
Now I can store five digits, every location is an integer.
Every location Integer, and if suppose, integer,
If we assume integer is taking 2 bytes, then total will be 10 bytes; 2 bytes each.
Now, each location can be accessed with the help of index, like A[0] = 27, so I can store 27
at this place. Now, A[1]
If I want to store something, then I can store a value then like this here.
So you can now have the group of elements together at one place.
Now I will show you, how to declare and initialize an array. Here, main ( )
Now in this, suppose, I want to declare an array of size 5, an array of size of 5 will be created.
Now, when the program is running,
It runs inside the main memory.
This is main memory, and the main memory is divided into three sections.
That is code section, and stack and heap. It will be inside the code section and with any variable declared,
like an array is declared, so it will be created here inside the stack.
This is where the array will be created, and that will be directly accessible to the main function; and directly I
can store the values, like already I have shown you I can store some values.
10 5 8 3 9 , we can store them.
This is how I can declare an array and where it will be created in the memory I have shown you.
Next thing I will show you, how to declare and initialize a array,
This is a declaration of an array, and
along with this I can also initialize it like 2 4 6 8 10 . So, array will be created and it will be already
filled with the values.
Like suppose an array B is created inside the stack then it will be filled with the values 2 4 6 8 10.
So this is declaration of an array,
this portion, and, this is initialization of the array. Together I can do. This is just declaration and
this is the declaration as well as initialization.
Now, next thing is how to access an Array. For accessing an Array, we can access all the elements one by one.
.
Suppose I want to print all of them, then I can use a for loop.
So for that I would take one variable.
I am using for loop for
integer i = 0, i < 5, i++ . Then, using printf, I can print it.
So,
printf ( " %d ", B[i] ) ;
You must be familiar with the for loop.
So, i = 0, i < 5, i++.
So, initially, i will be zero.
Then it checks whether I is less than 5.
Then it will bring this, B[0].
So it will be B[0]; B[0] the element will be printed. Then, next time i++, i becomes 1.
1 is less than  5, so it will print B[1] and so on up to B[4] it will print all elements.
So for loop is used for scanning through the list of elements in an array.
More frequently we use for loop for accessing all the elements of an array.
So that's it.
This is sufficient because we have a very big topic called arrays and we will be learning lots and
lots of things about arrays; Just as an introduction, as a revision,
I have done it.
So that's it.
About an Array.
So, the points that I have discussed, let me put them together.
I have explained you what does it mean by an array and how to declare and initialize it and when it is
declared inside a function then where it will appear inside the main memory.
This is sufficient for us now because we have lot of things to learn about array.
There is a big section called arrays.
So there you will learn everything about arrays.
So, as a revision, I have discussed this much, that is sufficient.
We have to learn about other topics.
Let us continue in other video.